# KISS: Keep it simple stupid

Life always moves from complexity to simplicity. Which also means that when
things are simple, they are better and optimized.

Some time back I wrote an article about how [Archlinux saved good old Ubuntu](archlinux)
that was running on my old desktop. Things went fine for some time but whenever
new packages were required I was forced to compile from the source and then
install it. This was because Ubuntu has stopped maintaining repo for the Ubuntu
version I was running.

With a 12 years old computer my obvious choice was not any off-the-shelf distro
but Archlinux. Archlinux because it is designed with the KISS concept in the
center.

The machine has following specification

*   1.7 GHz cpu
*   10 GB hard disk space
*   512 RAM
*   USB-Ethernet

The system is now fully configured and it runs Archlinux and it works much
better than old ubuntu. I could not get gnome up due to space crunch and also it
would have ended-up eating all of the memory available. Xfce was an obvious
choice. Following are super lightweight applications that run on my desktop and
perform all my computation tasks. Note it only uses 7 GB of HD space.

*   Xfce Desktop Environment
*   Accessories (Thunar File browser, Mousepad, Gcalculator)
*   Graphics (Gimp, GV, Libre-office Draw, Restretto Image viewer)
*   Internet (Firefox, transmission)
*   Multimedia (Mplayer, XMMS)
*   Office (Libreoffice, GnuCash, Gv)

In short, my 12 year old machine helps me browse through the Internet, check
emails, blogs, youtube, ted.com, chess.com, download multimedia and play them
locally, manage my presentations/documents, bookkeeping/accounting.

---

Update on: 17/03/2014
