---
layout: posts
title: Every Byte Matters
tags: GNU/Linux OS
desc: howto on recovering GNU/Linux with LVM
---

# Every Byte Matters

If you have more than one machine then it's always better to run these with the
same version of the operating system. Provided all the machines have the same
architecture.

I have three identical setup running Gnu Debian Linux 8.

Main reason for running these with Gnu Debian are

*   It's FREE as in the freedom operating system. [Why Debian?](http://www.inventati.org/swaraj/why_debian.html)
*   It's owned and maintained by the community.
*   It has long term support.

Best way to install the OS is via netboot; that way one dont have to download
large size ISO or DVD images, which any ways need to upgrade post installation.

To save more on the Internet bandwidth, configure the system only once for a
machine and later replicate the image on another.

This is how I did the same

1.  Have a separate LVM logical volume for root or slash or **_/_** and install
   the OS in it.
2.  Use _**dd**_ to create the image of the entire logical volume
3.  On the new machine, boot from the netboot image. Create a LV partition of
   the same size and copy the entire image as is.
4.  Then mount relevant partitions. Mount _**/proc**_, _**/dev**_, _**/sys**_
   and _**chroot**_ into it. [Details for
   steps](http://zeldor.biz/2010/12/install-grub-from-chroot/).
5.  Finally grub install and boot into identical Gnu/Linux.

Lets say on one of the machine you installed 'Latex' and you want to replicate
the same on other machine/s

1.  Find out the exact packages that were installed. See
   _**/var/log/apt/history.log**_
2.  Copy these .deb packages from the cache. The cache is maintained at
   _**/var/cache/apt/archives**_
3.  Copy it on new machine and blindly perform _**dpkg -i \***_

There is another better way to create the Debian repository of the cached 
packages and access it over the network from the other machine. I remember doing
that once for the Archlinux.

These methods might not be the optimal way to get things done but they work just
fine for isolated and/or low-bandwidth Internet setups.

