---
layout: posts
title: The Beast
tags: Bullet
desc: On Bullet - Royal Enfield's 350 CC
---

# The Beast

There is always room for improvement for everybody.

I have been riding bikes since my school days. But I was introduced to a real
bike three year ago by a friend who possessed one and I asked for a ride. By the
time I returned from that 10 minutes ride, I was in love with it.

Although the bike was very much different from other bikes that I rode, had to
kick 10 times before it got started, had gears and brakes on the wrong side and
it was as heavy as riding it with a Yokozuna at the back, I made a decision to
own one. Years after it, I was a proud owner of "Royal Enfield's Bullet 350
STD".

More complex a thing is, the more time it needs to learn. And, the more time one
invests, the more dear the thing becomes. True for all; relations, winning
strategies and Bullets. This real bike demands a relationship with its rider.
The relationship involves patience. In return one will get pleasure that only a
beast rider may get.

It is twenty thousand KM old now, with experience of flying at 120 KMPH,
Stamping the highest and toughest road of Leh-Ladakh and walking steadily with
mileage 35-42 KMPL.

It's rightly said, Bullet is a bike with a huge heart. And Don't bleed her heart
by riding it like the rest of the plastic bikes. Some of the easy riding tips
are as follows.

1. Do not throttle the engine immediately after the start. Ride a couple of KMs
   with low throttle and with appropriate gear.
2. Clutch should be used only while changing the gear.
3. For going above 60 KM, make sure that your bike is warm enough. Eg., 10 Km
   with 50, another 5 Km with 60 and then you can go up to 140 :).
4. For mileage drive within 40-50 Kmph on top gear, make use of momentum instead
   of always-throttle-style.
5. For braking use both the breaks.
6. For turns at high speed, have an inside bend and slightly turn the handle in
   the opposite direction.
7. Have Oil changed (engine, gear, clutch) after every 3000 Km.
8. Higher air pressure in the tyre will result in higher mileage but weaker
   control. So use appropriate air pressure. I use 32 and 26 PSI in the rear and
   front tyres. Will vary based on rider's Weight.
9. Regularly tighten the loose parts/nuts/bolts and replace damaged parts.
10. Always wear a helmet and enjoy the thump at 40-50 KMPH.

As I said, there is always room for improvement for everybody, please correct me
if I am wrong.

---

Published on 13/11/2009
