---
layout: posts
title: LSoM March 2020
tags: Running Community
desc: Last Sunday of Month Run
---

# LSoM March 2020

Hello Runners,

We are all super excited to organize March LSoM 2020. We have identified couple
of core areas where current LSoM structure can be improved

1.  How can we reach local communities better?
2.  How can those have access to the event who can not afford the ticket?

Conventional social media propaganda reaches to the same people/groups. Instead
of spending efforts on online promotion; we can go back to basics and spend
efforts on offline promotion of not just the event but also share a few good
things about running.

We can reach most of the nearby (say 5km radius) schools and
yoga/running/laughter clubs. Because the count of such groups will be more it
can not be a single day event or can not be done by only a selected few.

Idea is to Share the benefit of running and/or share an experience that changed
people's life because of running and motivate people to join us.

We can run this activity in a purely decentralized and distributed way for the entire
LSoM month; From previous LSoM to this.

Following could work

1.  Create multiple mini-groups of 4/5 runners from each running group involved
    in LSoM
2.  We can find a list of schools/colleges/groups nearby.
3.  Catch these local groups on suitable time; talk with them; share some
    presentation if exists; give them some free passes for needy or for those
    who can not afford the tickets.
4.  Finally, Share the numbers, Take the snaps and spread this on the social
    media

We are working towards getting roughly 15% free passes; eg., 300 free passes for
total of 2000 runners.

We feel doing such offline activities would be fun and would definitely give a
new experience of life.

Let's make this LSoM more interactive. Let's go out and connect with people
directly.

Let us know your view on this.

---

PS: This event was cancelled due to Covid19 Lockdown in India in March 2020.

Published On: Published on 18/02/2020
