---
layout: posts
title: "Improving Annual General Meetings"
tags: Cooperative AGM
desc: A Call for Change for coop AGMs
---

I attended the Annual General Meeting (AGM) yesterday, and like previous AGMs
that I attended, I've observed some issues in the way it's generally managed.
These concerns are not specific to this management committee but reflect a
broader need for change in the way we conduct our AGMs.

1. **Frequency and Length of AGMs:** AGMs are typically held once a year, and
   they often come with a lengthy agenda. However, squeezing all the important
   discussions and decisions into a few hours can be challenging. This often
   leads to rushed conversations and decisions that may not fully address the
   matters at hand.

2. **Embracing Technology:** There's a practical solution at our fingertips, and
   it lies in technology. Instead of relying solely on in-person meetings, we
   should open up online forums through platforms like WhatsApp or email. This
   would allow us to share research, collect feedback, and rework proposals
   collaboratively. The AGM could then be called solely for voting, eliminating
   the need for offline voting when technology provides secure and convenient
   online voting options.

3. **Setting Priorities:** During AGMs, setting priorities and timelines can be
   a complex and often inefficient process, especially when dealing with a small
   subset of members. To address this, we might consider forming a smaller
   working group or sub-committee to help prioritize and plan important issues
   throughout the year, presenting the results for approval at the AGM.

4. **Effective Use of AGMs:** AGMs should not be a platform for proposing new
   ideas or sharing opinions. Instead, they should focus on actionable matters.
   Allowing extensive discussions on new ideas can lead to inefficiency, as the
   loudest voices tend to dominate the conversation, and this, ultimately, harms
   the productivity of the meeting. We must strive for inclusivity and open
   ourselves to suggestions but within a more structured framework.

5. **Balancing Agenda:** The allocation of time and attention during AGMs should
   be equitable. Discussing relatively minor issues while neglecting significant
   concerns is counterproductive. When, for instance, a substantial portion of
   the budget goes toward topics like the playground or minor operational
   aspects rather than critical matters like solar electricity, society
   painting, or safety measures, it becomes evident that the agenda needs
   reevaluation.

6. **Prioritizing Unpopular but Important Issues:** By only focusing on issues
   with apparent popularity, we risk neglecting important matters that might not
   be in the limelight. To overcome this challenge, we should involve a broader
   range of members in the decision-making process throughout the year, allowing
   them to suggest and vote on priorities.

7. **Sharing Research in Advance:** Transparency and information-sharing are
   vital for informed decision-making. To this end, sharing research and
   information before the AGM should become a standard practice. This not only
   prepares members but also provides due recognition to committee members who
   dedicate their time and effort to research.

In my opinion, our collective effort should be directed towards nurturing and
enhancing our society. It requires continuous maintenance and improvement, which
ultimately benefits our community and neighborhood. Our overarching vision
should be to create a great community that enhances our quality of life and the
value of our homes. We should not let being too frugal, economical, or
cost-conscious hinder us from achieving this goal.

The AGM is an essential forum for discussing and deciding on matters that impact
our community, and it's crucial that it evolves to better serve our collective
interests. These proposed changes aim to make AGMs more efficient, inclusive,
and focused on the most critical issues affecting our society. It's time for a
positive change that ensures our community continues to thrive and improve.
