---
layout: posts
title: "Ganapati"
tags: Ganapati Utsav
desc: Ganapati Bappa Moraya
---

# Ganapati Bappa Moraya

As the Ganesh festival approaches, Lord Ganesh, fondly known as Bappa, blesses
his devotees by helping them transcend their tamasic (inert) tendencies and
elevates them to a higher level of consciousness.

People from cities often take 5-7 days off, working hard in the weeks prior to
the festival to make time for travel. They commute to their hometowns, spending
time with family and friends, engaging in a mix of fun, adjustments,
celebrations, decorations, pujas, and archana, all culminating with Bappa's
visarjan (immersion ceremony).

The festival fosters community engagement, with various activities organized by
housing societies. Sarvajanik (public) Ganesh Utsav, with its social dimension,
undoubtedly unites society.

This weekend, our society too organized several events, and I’ll highlight some
suggestions for improving event management next time.

In some sports matches, boys and girls played together. Due to an odd number of
participants, some players were automatically promoted to the next round, even
as late as the quarterfinals.

I had to step in to streamline the process for the next batch.

The draws should not only be based on the order of registration but also on the
skill level of the players. Otherwise, the game becomes a matter of luck, as top
players might face each other in the very first round.

Organizing the draws is more challenging than it appears, as I realized while
doing it myself.

Here are a few cases we dealt with in one of the sport draws:
1. We had 23 participants, and due to time constraints, we decided on doubles
   matches. With 11 full teams ready, we waited for one more participant to form
   a 12th team, planning accordingly with 12 teams.
2. By interacting with players and society members, we identified at least four
   strong teams and grouped them separately to ensure they would make it to the
   quarterfinals.
3. In one category with only five entries, we planned qualifying rounds to
   eliminate two teams. The remaining three teams played three matches, with the
   winner of the first match going directly to the finals. The losing team faced
   the third team, with the winner advancing to the finals and the loser
   securing the bronze.

Managing last-minute entries and scheduling matches on the fly was a challenge,
but it was enjoyable nonetheless.

We also organized some short-distance sprints (70 meters) for kids. One
improvement I suggested was capturing video at the finish line, rather than from
a distance and an angle, which distorts the results. Being directly on the
finish line provides a clear and fair perspective.

The art performances were a delight, with impressive acts by individuals and
teams. Some participants choreographed their own routines, while others sought
professional help. A great deal of effort goes into selecting the perfect song,
editing it to match the flow of the performance, shopping for outfits,
accessories, and makeup—truly a labor of love that consumes a lot of energy.

However, when judges evaluate performances solely from their own perspective,
often without considering the personal backgrounds and efforts of the
participants, it can lead to unfair outcomes. This can unintentionally shift the
focus from the joy of performing and appreciating the art form to merely
winning, which can demotivate participants.

A few suggestions:
1. Events should emphasize giving individuals multiple opportunities to
   participate and enjoy the activities, rather than quickly eliminating
   participants and reducing their chances.
2. Since the goal is to promote participation, efforts should be recognized and
   rewarded. Simple rewards like notebooks or pencils for all volunteers and
   participants would be more meaningful than awarding only three winners with
   trophies.


---

In my opinion, the real purpose of the सार्वजनिक गणेश उत्सव is not to
identify winners, but to encourage participation from all members of society,
fostering community unity. It’s a chance to bring everyone together, and in
doing so, we experience Bappa's blessings by recognizing his presence within
each one of us.

गणपती बाप्पा मोरया,
पुढच्या वर्षी लवकर या!
